docs: expand update a cluster DOC-1780 (#6391)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/cluster-management/cluster-updates.md

:::

## Update a Cluster

> ### Limitations

Reviewer: This Limitations section needs to be moved above **Update a Cluster** and changed to a header 2. This is because it's relevant to both How-tos in this article.

3. Select the cluster you updated, and navigate to the **Profile** tab of the cluster.

4. Confirm that the cluster is now using an updated profile.

## Palette Reconciliation After Updating

When cluster profile updates are applied, Palette will apply the changes to the cluster but will not delete any
resources that are no longer in use. You can choose to keep or remove these resources.

You can use `kubectl` to scale the resource count to 0. While deleting the resource using something like K9s is
possible, Palette will recreate it immediately. Scaling replicas to zero via `kubectl` ensures the resource is
effectively removed.

### Prerequisites

- An active Kubernetes cluster in Palette.
- A terminal client.

### Enablement

The following steps provide an example of how to clean up unneeded resources using `kubectl`. In this example, an AWS
cluster is created using a cluster profile with the

<VersionedLink text="Hello Universe" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=hello-universe" /> included. The Hello Universe pack
has the API preset option disabled.

> 1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/). Create a cluster profile with two versions for an AWS IaaS
>    cluster that includes the Hello Universe pack. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/). 

2. Create a cluster profile with two versions for an AWS IaaS
   cluster that includes the Hello Universe pack. For example:
```
we usually separate these steps, we just need to fix the other numbers. Let's also add a relative link to the cluster profile creation guide

   **Version 1.0.0**.

   - OS = <VersionedLink text="Ubuntu" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=ubuntu-aws" />
   - Kubernetes = <VersionedLink text="Kubernetes" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" />
   - Network = <VersionedLink text="Calico CNI" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=cni-calico" />
   - Storage = <VersionedLink text="AWS EBS CSI Driver" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=csi-aws-ebs" />
   - App services = <VersionedLink text="Hello Universe" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=hello-universe" /> with the API
     preset option disabled.

   **Version 1.1.0**.

   - OS = <VersionedLink text="Ubuntu" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=ubuntu-aws" />
   - Kubernetes = <VersionedLink text="Kubernetes" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" />
   - Network = <VersionedLink text="Calico CNI" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=cni-calico" />
   - Storage = <VersionedLink text="AWS EBS CSI Driver" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=csi-aws-ebs" />
   - App services = <VersionedLink text="Hello Universe" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=hello-universe" /> with the API
     preset option enabled.

2. Build a cluster using cluster profile version 1.0.0. This will take 15-20 minutes.

> 3. Download the [Admin kubeconfig](./kubeconfig.md) file from the cluster **Overview** tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Download the [Admin kubeconfig](./kubeconfig.md) file from the cluster **Overview** tab and export the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to the file path of the kubeconfig file.
```
lets add a relative link to this guide instead: https://docs.spectrocloud.com/clusters/cluster-management/palette-webctl/
This guide teaches the user how to download the kubeconfig file and export it locally.

> 4. Go your terminal application and run the following command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Open a terminal window and run the following command.
```

   ```shell

>    kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   kubectl get pods --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
```
we dont need to add the kubeconfig if we have exported it previously

   ```

> 5. This command will display the containers in the cluster that are in the `hello-universe` namespace. It will include

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This command will display the containers in the cluster that are in the `hello-universe` namespace. It will include
```
I think this doesnt need to be an extra step

   the pod name, container name, and container ID. You can use these identifiers with various `kubectl` options.

   Sample output

   ```shell
   POD_NAME                                     CONTAINER_NAME   CONTAINER_ID
   hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq   hello-universe   containerd://584f07c2cf2dbb24f62e63be4322d16314d86e496eeb185c5a5944e884744239
   ```

6. Return to Palette and update the cluster using the profile version 1.1.0.

> 7. Return to the terminal and run the following command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Return to the terminal and run the following command.
```

>    ```shell
>    kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
>    ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```shell
   kubectl get pods --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
   ```
```

   Sample output

   ```shell
   POD_NAME                                     CONTAINER_NAME   CONTAINER_ID
   api-86f745b67c-gk4lx                         api              containerd://21c7c18e42350efc25ea300e43c3471c64fba6953ae14bb2b46387c8e5d9c06d
   hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq   hello-universe   containerd://584f07c2cf2dbb24f62e63be4322d16314d86e496eeb185c5a5944e884744239
   postgres-567dc9cb4c-cd7fn                    postgres         containerd://b704c87e77ea468156d7f8033b7ad8d9a8ce6048e640b84c529572ac1fb41cd5
   ui-f7ff4ddc5-hcv72                           ui               containerd://40f78fb4aef00445dc9cf051ca57d61f935594cbe1e426d1f193624769ac132d
   ```

>    With the cluster updated, we notice that the previous version of the Hello Universe app remains. This container,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   With the cluster updated, note that the previous version of the Hello Universe app remains. This container,
```

   however, is not used with the API version and is no longer needed.

8. Locate the pod name of the container you want to remove and run the following command.

>    ```shell
>    kubectl scale deployment hello-universe-deployment --replicas=0 hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace hello-universe
>    ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```shell
   kubectl scale deployment hello-universe-deployment --replicas=0 hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq --namespace hello-universe
   ```
```

   Sample output

   ```
   deployment.apps/hello-universe-deployment scaled
   Error from server (NotFound): deployments.apps "hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq" not found
   ```

>    This command will reduce the container count to 0, effectively stopping the container without destroying the
>    container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This command will reduce the container count to 0, effectively stopping the container without destroying it.
```

>    If you have multiple clusters with resources no longer in use, you could put the command into a script to help remove
>    those additional resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If you have multiple clusters with resources no longer in use, you could put the command into a script to help scale down
   those additional resources.
```

### Prerequisites

- An active Kubernetes cluster in Palette.
- A terminal client

### Enablement

The steps below show how we can use the second option while deploying the Hello Universe application pack and updating the cluster profile. In this example, we create an AWS cluster called cluster-update-deletion. We will use Palette and a terminal application.

1. Log into Palette and create a cluster profile with two versions. The base layers should be ubuntu-aws, Kubernetes, cni-calico, and csi-aws-ebs. The App Services layer will use the Hello Universe from the Palette Community Registry (OCI).
   
   The first profile version (1.0.0) should be the Hello Universe 1.2.0 pack with the API disabled. 
   
   The second version (1.1.0) should be the Hello Universe 1.2.0 pack with the API enabled. 
   
2. Build a cluster using the profile version 1.0.0 (takes about 15-20 min)
   
3. Download the Admin kubeconfig file from the cluster Overview.
   
   Sample output:

  ![How to download Admin kubeconfig file from Palette](/clusters_management_updates_kubeconfig-download.webp)   

4. Go your terminal application and run the following command

>  ```kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"```

Author: kubectl does not have a long form for -o

3. Select the cluster you updated, and navigate to the **Profile** tab of the cluster.

4. Confirm that the cluster is now using an updated profile.

## Palette Reconciliation Behavior

> When cluster profile updates are applied, Palette will apply the changes to the cluster but will not delete any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When cluster profile updates are applied, Palette will apply the changes to the cluster, but will not delete any
```

resources that are no longer in use. This may be appropriate in some instances, but removing those resources will be

> necessary in others. This can be achieved by utilizing one of the two following methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
necessary in others. You can achieve this by utilizing one of the two following methods.
```

> resources that are no longer in use. This may be appropriate in some instances, but removing those resources will be
> necessary in others. This can be achieved by utilizing one of the two following methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resources that are no longer in use. Depending on the situation, you can choose to keep or remove these resources. To remove the resources, utilize one of the following two methods.
```

Reviewer: Slightly more active language suggested.

> The first would be to utilize a clean deployment with a new cluster profile. The previous version could be deleted once
> the new cluster and cluster profile are deployed. The challenge, however, is when particular resources are in use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first method would be a clean deployment with a new cluster profile. Once the new cluster and cluster profile are deployed, the previous version could be deleted. The challenge, however, is when particular resources are in use.
```

> The second option is to use `kubectl` to scale the resource count to 0. While deleting the resource using something like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second method is to use `kubectl` to scale the resource count to 0. While deleting the resource using something like
```

Reviewer: This will keep the terminology consistent from the intro.

> K9s is possible, Palette will recreate it immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
K9s is possible, Palette will recreate it immediately. Scaling replicas to zero via `kubectl` ensures the resource is effectively removed.
```

Reviewer: Just some additional context on the use of this method.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section provides guidance on removing resources using the second method. 

```

Reviewer: I suggest telling users which method we'll provide guidance on at the beginning.

You can then shorten the initial intro to the steps.

### Limitations

:::warning

Once you upgrade your cluster to a new Kubernetes version, you will not be able to downgrade. We recommend that, before
upgrading, you review the information provided in the
[Kubernetes Upgrades](../../integrations/kubernetes-support.md#kubernetes-upgrades) section.

:::

- You cannot update a cluster while its status is still **Provisioning**.

- You cannot change the Container Network Interface (CNI) of an Edge cluster. You must delete and re-create the cluster
  instead. For more information about creating an Edge cluster, refer to
  [Create Cluster Definition](../edge/site-deployment/cluster-deployment.md).

- Avoid skipping minor versions when upgrading the Kubernetes version of a cluster. Refer to the documentation of your
  Kubernetes distribution for upgrade guidance and follow the recommended upgrade paths.

  - For PXK and PXK-E, refer to
    [Upgrade Kubeadm Clusters](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/).
  - For K3s, refer to [K3s Upgrades](https://docs.k3s.io/upgrades#version-specific-caveats)

>   - For RKE2, refer to [RKE2 Manual Upgrades](https://docs.rke2.io/upgrades/manual_upgrade)

Reviewer: @Linus-SpectroCloud You can use a "global" Limitations section for an article, so I would put a Limitations (header 2) at the beginning of the article that covers both How-tos.

The rest of the article headers are all in alignment with our guidance though.

### Prerequisites

- An active Kubernetes cluster in Palette.

> - A terminal client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A terminal client.
```

### Enablement

> The steps below show how we can use the second option while deploying the Hello Universe application pack and updating
> the cluster profile. In this example, we create an AWS cluster called cluster-update-deletion. We will use Palette and a
> terminal application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps provide an example of how to clean up unneeded resources using `kubectl`. In this example, we create an AWS cluster called **cluster-update-deletion** using a cluster profile with the Hello Universe application pack included.
```

> 1. Log into Palette and create a cluster profile with two versions. The base layers should be ubuntu-aws, Kubernetes,

Author: "ubuntu-aws" is the actual name and case of the layer.

> 1. Log into Palette and create a cluster profile with two versions. The base layers should be ubuntu-aws, Kubernetes,
>    cni-calico, and csi-aws-ebs. The App Services layer will use the Hello Universe from the Palette Community Registry
>    (OCI).
> 
>    The first profile version (1.0.0) should be the Hello Universe 1.2.0 pack with the API disabled.
> 
>    The second version (1.1.0) should be the Hello Universe 1.2.0 pack with the API enabled.
> 
> 2. Build a cluster using the profile version 1.0.0 (takes about 15-20 min)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to Palette and create a cluster profile for an AWS IaaS cluster that includes the Hello Universe pack. For example:

   OS = **ubuntu-aws**
   Kubernetes = **kubernetes**
   Network = **cni-calico**
   Storage = **csi-aws-ebs**
   App services = **hellouniverse** with the API preset option disabled.

2. Build a cluster using this cluster profile version. This will take 15-20 minutes.

```

3. Download the Admin kubeconfig file from the cluster Overview.

   Sample output

![How to download Admin kubeconfig file from Palette](/clusters_management_updates_kubeconfig-download.webp)

> 4. Go your terminal application and run the following command
> 
> `kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Go to your terminal application and run the following command.

   ```shell
   kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
   ```

Reviewer: Identation and moving to a code block for the command so that users can copy it to their clipboard from our docs.

5. This command will display the containers in the cluster that are in the hello universe namespace. It will include the
   pod name, container name, and container ID. You can use these identifiers with various `kubectl` options.

Sample output

> ![Using kubectl to see what containers are running](/clusters_management_updates_kubectl-noapi-hellouniverse.webp)

Reviewer: By also using the `title="Sample output"` bit, it includes a title for the code block, so that you don't have to write "Sample output" in a separate line above.

> 6. Return to Palette and update the cluster using the profile version 1.1.0 (takes about 1-2 min).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Return to Palette and update the cluster using the profile version 1.1.0. This takes around 1-2 minutes.

```

7. Return to the terminal and run the following command

`kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"`

Sample output

![Using kubectl to see what containers are running in the updated cluster](/clusters_management_updates_kubectl-api-hellouniverse.webp)

> With the cluster updated, we can see that the previous version of the Hello Universe app remains. This container,
> however, is not used with the API version and is no longer needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   With the cluster updated, we can see that the previous version of the Hello Universe app remains. This container,
   however, is not used with the API version and is no longer needed.
```

Reviewer: The content within a numbered step must be indented otherwise it will be rendered outside of the numbered step.

8. Locate the pod name of the container you want to remove and run the following command.

`kubectl scale deployment hello-universe-deployment --replicas=0 hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-jtlp7 --kubeconfig=cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace hello-universe`

Sample output

![Using kubectl to remove resources no longer in use](/clusters_management_updates_kubectl-api-hellouniverse-removed.webp)

This command will reduce the container count to 0, effectively stopping the container. If you have multiple clusters
with resources no longer in use, you could put the command into a script to help remove those additional resources.

### Validation

You can follow these steps to validate all cluster update approaches.

> 1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).
> 2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.
> 3. Select the cluster you modified, and navigate to the **Workloads** tab of the cluster.
> 4. Select **Pods** and filter for the deployment namespace.
> 5. Confirm that the unnecessary resources have been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**.

3. Select the cluster you modified, and navigate to the **Workloads** tab of the cluster.

4. Select **Pods** and filter for the deployment namespace.

5. Confirm that the unnecessary resources have been removed.
```

Reviewer: Added some spacing and switched to a recent style guide change where "main menu" is no longer a proper noun in bold.

   - App services = <VersionedLink text="Hello Universe" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=hello-universe" /> with the API
     preset option enabled.

2. Build a cluster using cluster profile version 1.0.0. This will take 15-20 minutes.

3. Download the [Admin kubeconfig](./kubeconfig.md) file from the cluster **Overview** tab.

4. Go your terminal application and run the following command

   ```shell
   kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
   ```

5. This command will display the containers in the cluster that are in the `hello-universe` namespace. It will include
   the pod name, container name, and container ID. You can use these identifiers with various `kubectl` options.

   Sample output

   ```shell
   POD_NAME                                     CONTAINER_NAME   CONTAINER_ID
   hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq   hello-universe   containerd://584f07c2cf2dbb24f62e63be4322d16314d86e496eeb185c5a5944e884744239
   ```

> 6. Return to Palette and update the cluster using the profile version 1.1.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Return to Palette and update the cluster using the profile version 1.1.0. Refer to the [Update a Cluster](#update-a-cluster) section for instructions on updating your cluster.
```
lets add a relative link to guide the user how to make this update. You can link to the previous section of this guide (please confirm that the suggested link i added is working xD).

3. Select the cluster you updated, and navigate to the **Profile** tab of the cluster.

4. Confirm that the cluster is now using an updated profile.

> ## Palette Reconciliation Behavior

Reviewer 3: Is this heading appropriate? It sounds like you are providing a how-to on "Remove redundant cluster resources after update" instead of explaining the behavior. I would maybe use that as the heading.

When cluster profile updates are applied, Palette will apply the changes to the cluster but will not delete any

> resources that are no longer in use. Depending on the situation, you can choose to keep or remove these resources. To

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
resources that are no longer in use. You can choose to keep or remove these resources. To
```
"Depending on the situation" is kind of a filler phrase that you can do without here.

Reviewer: That was part of my suggested change in all honesty ✋ .

remove the resources, utilize one of the following two methods.

> The first method would be a clean deployment with a new cluster profile. Once the new cluster and cluster profile are

Reviewer 3: In my opinion, this first method can be omitted entirely. This section is about cluster updates, not deleting and recreating a cluster. I would feel a little misled if I am trying to update the cluster but the first thing I'm told to do is to delete and recreate it. Removing this method allows you to be more focused on describing the actual procedure.

At least I would not call this the first method, since this is the first thing that the audience will read but is not what your procedure is describing.

Reviewer 4: Agree with this point. Tearing down the entire cluster isn't really a thing we would ever recommend.

> deployed, the previous version could be deleted. The challenge, however, is when particular resources are in use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
deployed, the previous version could be deleted. However, this may have unintended downstream effects because it does not preserve any resource that is currently in use.
```
The last sentence seems a bit vague to me. I rewrote it to be a little more explicit what the risks are (if these are what you meant when you say 'when particular resource is in-use'.

> The second method is to use `kubectl` to scale the resource count to 0. While deleting the resource using something like

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The second method is to use `kubectl` to scale the resource count to 0. While deleting the resource manually
```

> K9s is possible, Palette will recreate it immediately. Scaling replicas to zero via `kubectl` ensures the resource is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 is possible, Palette will recreate it immediately through its reconciliation flow. Scaling replicas to zero ensures the resource is
```

Reviewer 4: I don't think we should be overly focused on tools in this introduction.

effectively removed.

This section provides guidance on removing resources using the second method.

> This section provides guidance on removing the resources using the second method.

Reviewer 3: Duplicate sentence here

### Prerequisites

- An active Kubernetes cluster in Palette.
- A terminal client.

### Enablement

The following steps provide an example of how to clean up unneeded resources using `kubectl`. In this example, an AWS

> cluster called **cluster-update-deletion** is created using a cluster profile with the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
cluster is created using a cluster profile with the
```

Reviewer 4: No need to call out the name of the cluster.

> [Hello Universe](/integrations/packs/?pack=hello-universe) included. The Hello Universe pack has the API preset option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<VersionedLink text="Hello Universe" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=hello-universe"/> included. The Hello Universe pack has the API preset option
```

Reviewer: Any links to packs need to be VersionedLinks as per this suggestion.

https://github.com/spectrocloud/librarium?tab=readme-ov-file#link-to-a-pack

disabled.

> 1. Log in to Palette and create a cluster profile with two versions for an AWS IaaS cluster that includes the Hello

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/). Create a cluster profile with two versions for an AWS IaaS cluster that includes the Hello
```

Reviewer 4: We always provide a link to SaaS when talking about Palette.

   Universe pack. For example:

   **Version 1.0.0**.

   - OS = **ubuntu-aws**

>    - Kubernetes = **kubernetes**

Reviewer 4: This doesn't tell me which pack you mean. I would suggest providing links to all the packs in these lists.

   - Network = **cni-calico**
   - Storage = **csi-aws-ebs**
   - App services = **hellouniverse** with the API preset option disabled.

   **Version 1.1.0**.

   - OS = **ubuntu-aws**
   - Kubernetes = **kubernetes**
   - Network = **cni-calico**
   - Storage = **csi-aws-ebs**
   - App services = **hellouniverse** with the API preset option enabled.

> 2. Build a cluster using cluster profile version 1.0.0. This will take 15-20 minutes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Build a cluster using cluster profile version 1.0.0.
```

Reviewer 4: I think we should generally shy away from duration statements. It take 15-20 min for us on AWS, but if they go for another cloud it could be a different duration.

> 3. Download the [Admin kubeconfig](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig/) file from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Download the [Admin kubeconfig](./kubeconfig.md) file from the
```

Reviewer: As this is a link to another page in our documentation, we use relative links here: https://github.com/spectrocloud/librarium?tab=readme-ov-file#markdown-links-and-urls

Reviewer 4: Yes, this ensures that versioned pages are served any older version docs.

   cluster **Overview** tab.

4. Go your terminal application and run the following command

> ```shell
> kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   ```shell
   kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
   ```
````

> 5. This command will display the containers in the cluster that are in the hello universe namespace. It will include the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. This command will display the containers in the cluster that are in the `hello-universe` namespace. It will include the
```

> 5. This command will display the containers in the cluster that are in the hello universe namespace. It will include the

Reviewer 4: This step talks about the output of step 4 and should therefore be combined with it.

   pod name, container name, and container ID. You can use these identifiers with various `kubectl` options.

Sample output

```shell
POD_NAME                                     CONTAINER_NAME   CONTAINER_ID
hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq   hello-universe   containerd://584f07c2cf2dbb24f62e63be4322d16314d86e496eeb185c5a5944e884744239
```

> 6. Return to Palette and update the cluster using the profile version 1.1.0. This takes around 1-2 minutes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. Return to Palette and update the cluster using the profile version 1.1.0.
```

7. Return to the terminal and run the following command

> ```shell
> kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
> ```
> 
> Sample output
> 
> ```shell
> POD_NAME                                     CONTAINER_NAME   CONTAINER_ID
> api-86f745b67c-gk4lx                         api              containerd://21c7c18e42350efc25ea300e43c3471c64fba6953ae14bb2b46387c8e5d9c06d
> hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq   hello-universe   containerd://584f07c2cf2dbb24f62e63be4322d16314d86e496eeb185c5a5944e884744239
> postgres-567dc9cb4c-cd7fn                    postgres         containerd://b704c87e77ea468156d7f8033b7ad8d9a8ce6048e640b84c529572ac1fb41cd5
> ui-f7ff4ddc5-hcv72                           ui               containerd://40f78fb4aef00445dc9cf051ca57d61f935594cbe1e426d1f193624769ac132d
> ```
> 
> With the cluster updated, we notice that the previous version of the Hello Universe app remains. This container,
> however, is not used with the API version and is no longer needed.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   ```shell
   kubectl get pods --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace=hello-universe -o=custom-columns="POD_NAME:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_NAME:.status.containerStatuses[].name,CONTAINER_ID:.status.containerStatuses[].containerID"
   ```

   Sample output

   ```shell
   POD_NAME                                     CONTAINER_NAME   CONTAINER_ID
   api-86f745b67c-gk4lx                         api              containerd://21c7c18e42350efc25ea300e43c3471c64fba6953ae14bb2b46387c8e5d9c06d
   hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq   hello-universe   containerd://584f07c2cf2dbb24f62e63be4322d16314d86e496eeb185c5a5944e884744239
   postgres-567dc9cb4c-cd7fn                    postgres         containerd://b704c87e77ea468156d7f8033b7ad8d9a8ce6048e640b84c529572ac1fb41cd5
   ui-f7ff4ddc5-hcv72                           ui               containerd://40f78fb4aef00445dc9cf051ca57d61f935594cbe1e426d1f193624769ac132d
   ```

   With the cluster updated, we notice that the previous version of the Hello Universe app remains. This container,
   however, is not used with the API version and is no longer needed.
````

8. Locate the pod name of the container you want to remove and run the following command.

```shell
kubectl scale deployment hello-universe-deployment --replicas=0 hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace hello-universe
```

Sample output

```
deployment.apps/hello-universe-deployment scaled
Error from server (NotFound): deployments.apps "hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq" not found
```

> This command will reduce the container count to 0, effectively stopping the container. If you have multiple clusters

Reviewer 4: The added benefit of this approach is that nothing is destroyed yes, so readers can ensure that they don't cause an outage during the deletion process. I think we should mention this.

> ```shell
> kubectl scale deployment hello-universe-deployment --replicas=0 hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace hello-universe
> ```
> 
> Sample output
> 
> ```
> deployment.apps/hello-universe-deployment scaled
> Error from server (NotFound): deployments.apps "hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq" not found
> ```
> 
> This command will reduce the container count to 0, effectively stopping the container. If you have multiple clusters
> with resources no longer in use, you could put the command into a script to help remove those additional resources.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   ```shell
   kubectl scale deployment hello-universe-deployment --replicas=0 hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq --kubeconfig=admin.cluster-update-deletion.kubeconfig --namespace hello-universe
   ```

   Sample output

   ```
   deployment.apps/hello-universe-deployment scaled
   Error from server (NotFound): deployments.apps "hello-universe-deployment-6854947c67-ltdmq" not found
   ```

   This command will reduce the container count to 0, effectively stopping the container. If you have multiple clusters
   with resources no longer in use, you could put the command into a script to help remove those additional resources.
````

### Validation

> You can follow these steps to validate all cluster update approaches.

Reviewer 4: Remove this as I agree with Lenny that only the second method from the intro should remain.
